# Other Recoverable Errors

## Lesson Introduction

Within the class of recoverable errors, you have only handled one kind of error so far, namely the "missing value error." A missing value is encoded through `Option<T>` To provide information about different kinds of errors, you need a different type that takes two generic parameters: one to describe a successful result and one to describe an error if it occurred. In this lesson, you will learn about the so-called `Result<T, E>` type exactly for this purpose.

The Definition of `Result<T, E>` The standard library implementation of `Result<T, E>` looks something like this 👉

```
enum Result<T, E> {
    Ok(T),
    Err(E),
}
```

☝️ Just like for `Option<T>` the
Result<T, E> type and it's variants `Ok(T)` and `Err(E)` are imported automatically through the prelude.

The `Ok(T)` variant is used to represent a "successful" value, whereas the `Err(E)` is used to represent failure. Most Rust libraries define one or more error types to represent the possible errors that can occur. The Rust standard library defines `std::num::ParseIntError` for integer parsing errors and `std::io::Error` for all kinds of errors concerning file and memory reading and writing.

## Errors

While exception-based error handling may seem convenient at first, it is often challenging to figure out for a piece of code if and what exceptions could be thrown.

From the calling side, it needs to be more obvious from the function signature what errors must be handled. The compiler also will not warn you if you forget to handle an error that you should manage. With Rust, you can see what errors you can expect.☝️ You can still decide not to handle them and have the program crash, but at least that is a clear choice.

❕ The type system will prevent you from using a value without handling an error because success values are wrapped inside an `Option::Some(value)` or `Result::Ok(value)`

## Lesson Summary

Completing this lesson taught you that recoverable errors are encoded in the return types of functions, often using the standard `Option<T>` and `Result<T, E>` types.
