# Irrecoverable Errors

## Lesson Introduction

Some errors can occur, which indicate a problem with the software itself. It can very well be that an invariant expected to be upheld been violated, indicating a programming error that needs to be solved. In other cases, a program may not reasonably be expected to recover from a certain error. Most applications, which are not safety critical, are not expected, for example, to recover from out-of-memory errors. Errors from which an application is not expected to recover can be classified as irrecoverable errors. In this lesson, you will learn how irrecoverable errors are realized in Rust through a mechanism called panicking.

### Introducing a Panic

â˜ï¸ You can easily introduce a panic with the `panic!` macro like so.

`panic!("Oh no!");`

### From Recoverable to Irrecoverable

Often times when you implement a function, you don't know if the user of that function can handle an error or not.

Consider, for example, the function `std::fs::File::open`, which attempts to open a file for reading. For one program, it may be a requirement that the file exists. â˜ï¸ For another program, the file is not strictly necessary. The user of a function always knows more about how to handle errors than the implementor.

### Recovering from a Panic

It is possible to catch a panic using
`std::panic::catch_unwind`.â˜ï¸ This is not a good way to implement error handling, but may be useful under certain circumstances.

```
match std::panic::catch*unwind(|| {
    panic!("Stop!");
}) {
    Ok(*) => println!("No panics occurred."),
    Err(\_) => println!("The code panicked."),
}
```

### Double Panicking

ðŸ‘‰ When an application panics, the call stack is unwinded, and any drop implementations are called in order to release resources properly. Should a panic occur during a panic, a so-called double panic, the program aborts immediately.

## Lesson Summary

In this lesson, you've learned that irrecoverable errors are raised through panicking, which unwinds the call stack and normally causes the application to exit.
