# Syllabus

## Overview

😎 The Rust Basics course is an introduction to the Rust programming language. For 6 years, Rust has been the most loved programming language. Surely, there is something to Rust that makes it so pleasant to work with. This course will get you familiar with the programming language Rust and its ecosystem. At the time of writing this course (2022), the demand for good Rust developers is growing rapidly. There are not many software developers to fill those spots, so this is an opportune time to invest in learning Rust.
As with anything, one of the best ways to learn is through active practice. Therefore, this course provides quizzes and exercises with which you can improve your retention of the material.

## Audience

☝️ The Rust Basics course is targeted at people with programming experience. An understanding of basic programming concepts like variables, functions, memory allocation, etcetera is assumed.

## Learning objectives

After finishing this course, you will be comfortable reading and writing Rust programs. Not only that, you will probably have taken some of the fundamental ideas of Rust to heart, carrying them with you regardless of the programming language you are using. Finishing the Rust Basics course will prepare you for any of the follow-up courses that go into more specific domains, such as programming smart contracts or developing software running on embedded devices.

## Time commitment

The time required to study and practice the Rust Basics depends a lot on your experience. We estimate that for someone who has a limited amount of experience, the course will take roughly TODO

## What You Will Learn in This Course

`INTRODUCTION`: This submodule will give a brief overview of the purpose of Rust and dispell common misconceptions. By the end, you will have written, compiled, and run your first Rust program.

`TYPES`: This submodule will quickly go over the primitive types in Rust and show you how to create your own.

`LOGIC`: This submodule explains how to implement logic and organize the code. We will demonstrate how you can execute code conditionally and as many times as needed. After that, we go over tools that let you organize your code functionally and limit repetition through functions, closures, methods, traits, generics, and macros.

`DATA OWNERSHIP`: The one thing that made Rust unique among programming languages when it was created was that it had a concept of data ownership built into the language. This submodule explains the ownership concept and how to share data throughout a program.
`ERROR HANDLING`: All programming languages need to allow programmers to deal with errors that can occur when a program runs. Rust utilizes both monadic types, a concept from Category theory, as well as exception handling to do so. This submodule describes which options are available and how to get good results.

`TRAITS AND GENERICS`: This submodule includes:

1. Trait Details (incl. Associated Items, Generic Parameters, Associated Types versus Generic Parameters, Scope, Derive Macros, Default Implementations, Generic Blanket Implementations, Supertraits, Marker Traits, Auto Traits, Unsafe Traits)
2. Trait Objects (incl. Creating Trait Objects, Trait Objects versus Enumerations, Object Safety)

`THE STANDARD LIBRARY`: This submodule includes:

1. Dynamically Sized Arrays (incl. Vector)
2. String Types (incl. String and str and OsString and OsStr)
3. Box
4. Associative Types (incl. HashMap and BTreeMap)
5. Smart Pointers
6. Arguments and the Environment
7. The Filesystem
8. Traits (incl. Auto Traits, General Traits, Formatting Traits and Operator Traits)

`LIBRARIES AND APPLICATIONS`: Most software projects are composed of many libraries and a few applications which build upon those libraries. This submodule shows how you can organize your code on a high level and enable re-use of pieces of software.

`TESTING`: Instead of validating the behavior of software by hand every time it is a good idea to write automated tests. This submodule shows how you can write various kinds of tests.

`COMMONLY USED EXTERNAL LIBRARIES`: This submodule includes:

1. Error Handling
2. Logging
3. Testing
4. Serialization and Deserialization
5. Command Line Applications

`COMMONLY USED EXTERNAL TOOLS`: This submodule includes:

1. cargo-edit
2. cargo-audit
3. cargo-udeps

`GOING DEEPER`: This submodule includes:

1. Web3 / Solana
2. Embedded

Each lesson includes a theoretical part and references for more in-depth self-study. As well as at the end of each lesson there are quizzes to check the knowledge of the passed material.
