# Test Run Options

## Quiz

### 1. How can you reveal text written to stdout by tests when running tests with cargo test?

a. No need, the information printed to stdout by test functions is always visible.

**b. You need to provide the --show-output flag.**

c. You need to provide the --no-hiding flag.

d. No need, but you can hide the output to get a clean test output by providing the --hide-stdout flag.

### 2. How would you run only certain tests with cargo test?

a. You have to comment out the tests that you do not want to run.

b. You have to add the #[ignore] attribute to tests you do not want to run.

c. You can pass a regex to the cargo test binary to only include tests of which the fully qualified path matches the regex.

**d. You can pass a substring to the cargo test binary to only include tests of which the fully qualified path contains the substring.**

### 3. What could you do if there is a test that you don't want to get run by default, but you do want the code in the test to keep compiling?

a. Comment out the test.

b. Add a feature flag and make the test only compile when that feature flag is enabled with #[cfg()].

**c. Add the #[ignore] attribute to the test.**

d. Delete the test and use version control to bring it back when you need it again.

### 4. How are tests run by the default test framework?

a. Sequentially, based on the alphabetical ordering of the test name.

**b. In parallel, based on the alphabetical ordering of the test name.**

c. Sequentially, in a randomized order.

d. In parallel, in a randomized order.
