# Data Types

## Quiz

### 1. What primitive types help you represent numbers with a fractional part?

a. isize and usize

b. u64 and i64

**c. f32 and f64**

d. i32 and i64

### 2. What integer types do not have the same size in memory on all platforms?

a. i8 and u8

**b. isize and usize**

c. f32 and f64

d. i32 and i64

### 3. What is the largest unsigned integer type?

a. usize

b. u64

**c. u128**

d. u256

### 4. When would you use an isize instead of a usize?

a. When you need fractional numbers.

b. When you want to store a pointer.

c. When you want to store negative numbers.

**d. When you want to represent negative memory offsets.**

### 5. How many bits does a char take up in memory?

a. 8

b. 16

**c. 32**

d. 64

### 6. Will the following code compile?

`let b: bool = 1;`

a. Yes

**b. No**

### 7. How would you write the type of an array of 16 bytes?

a. [char; 16]

b. [16; char]

**c. [u8; 16]**

d. [16; u8]

### 8. What is the difference between an array and a slice?

a. An array can only be created compile-time and a slice can only be created at run-time.

**b. We know the size of an array at compile-time but we do not know the size of a slice at compile-time.**

c. Arrays can only be used behind a reference but slices can be used directly.

d. Slices can be very large, but the size of arrays is limited.

### 9. What is the main difference between a tuple and an array?

**a. A tuple can contain elements of different types whereas an array can not.**

b. An array can contain any number of items whereas a tuple can not.

c. You can iterate over the items in a tuple but not over the items in an array.

d. A tuple is more efficient in memory than an array.

### 10. How is a tuple struct different from a tuple with a type alias?

a. A tuple struct can be referred to with a custom name determined by the programmer but a tuple can not.

b. A tuple can not be referred to with a custom name but a tuple struct can.

c. A tuple struct requires specifying names for its fields but a tuple uses 0, 1, etc.

**d. A type alias does not create a new type whereas a tuple struct definition does.**

### 11. When would you use a regular struct over a tuple struct?

a. When you want to be able to add fields at run-time.

b. When you need a map or dictionary type.

**c. When you want to give the fields a custom name.**

d. When you need a new type rather than a type alias.

### 12. What is the purpose of enumerations?

a. The purpose of enumerations is to easily define multiple constants.

**b. The purpose of enumerations is to define a new type which can hold one of multiple kinds of values which are known at compile time.**

c. The purpose of enumerations is to let programmers define more space efficient structs.

d. The purpose of enumerations is to let programmers name constants.

### 13. What language constructs would you use to improve the modelling of following information?

```
const GREET: u32 = 0;
const EXIT: u32 = 1;

struct Message {
    kind: u32,
    contents: String, // only valid when kind is GREET.
    code: u32, // only valid when kind is EXIT.
}
```

a. tuples with type aliases.

b. a tuple struct.

c. a struct with an enumeration.

**d. an enumeration.**
