# Ownership Explanation

## Quiz

### 1. The idea of ownership in Rust is ...

**a. that we track who is allowed to view, and who is allowed to modify and who is required to clean up after a piece of data.**

b. that we know who are allowed to view a piece of data at the same time.

c. that we know who is required to drop data at compile-time.

d. incorrectthat we know who is allowed to modify a piece of data at either run- or compile-time.

### 2. Consider the following program:

```
struct A;

impl Drop for A {
    fn drop(&mut self) {
        print!("a");
    }
}

struct B(A);

impl Drop for B {
    fn drop(&mut self) {
        print!("b");
    }
}

fn main() {
    let _a = A;
    let _b = B(A);
}
```

### What does this program output?

a. ba

b. ab

c. aba

**d. baa**

### 3. Consider the following program:

```
struct A;

impl Drop for A {
    fn drop(&mut self) {
        print!("a");
    }
}

struct B(A);

impl Drop for B {
    fn drop(&mut self) {
        print!("b");
    }
}

fn main() {
    let _a = A;
    let _b = B(A);
    let _a = _a;
}
```

### What does this program output?

a. ba

b. ab

**c. aba**

d. baa

### 4. Consider the following program:

```
struct A;

impl Drop for A {
fn drop(&mut self) {
        print!("a");
    }
}

struct B(A);

impl Drop for B {
    fn drop(&mut self) {
        print!("b");
    }
}

fn main() {
    let _ = A;
    let _ = B(A);
}
```

### What does this program output?

a. ba

b. ab

**c. aba**

d. baa

### 5. The Copy trait can be implemented for types ...

a. that require a specialized implementation to duplicate a value.

**b. for which values can be duplicated by simply copying over the exact bits of the value.**

c. represent numbers like integers and floating point representations.

d. that do not have a Drop implementation and it is done so automatically.

### 6. The Clone trait is meant to be implemented for types ...

a. that require a specialized implementation to duplicate a value.

**b. that can be duplicated.**

c. that allocate memory.

d. that implement Drop.

### 7. Have a look at the following program:

```
let x = String::from("purple");
let y = match String::as_str(&x) {
    "red" => "red",
    _ => "not red",
};
println!("{x} is {y}");
```

### What can you say about this program?

**a. It will compile just fine because x is not moved into String::as_str, only a reference, and can be used again in the print statement.**

b. It will compile just fine because String implements Copy and so it can be used in the match and in the print statement.

c. It does not compile because x is moved into String::as_str and can not be used again in the print statement.

d. It does not compile because the type of x is String and we are trying to match that with &'static str patterns.
