# References and Borrowing

## Quiz

### 1. The String::len method returns the length of a String. If we had to guess the signature of the String::len function, what should we expect it to look like, and why?

a. pub fn len(self) -> usize

**b. pub fn len(&self) -> usize**

c. pub fn len(value: String) -> usize

d. pub fn len(value: &String) -> usize

### 2. Given the following code snippet:

```
let a1 = String::from("");
let a2 = a1;
let b1 = 42;
let b2 = b1;
```

### What variables can still be used after this executes?

a. a2, b2

b. a1, a2, b1, b2

**c. a2, b1, b2**

d. a1, a2, b2

### 3. The following program contains two placeholders, TYPE and EXPRESSION.

```
fn f(a: TYPE) -> i32 {
    *a += 1;
    *a * 2;
}

fn main () {
    let mut a = 3;
    println!("{}{a}", f(EXPRESSION));
}
```

### What should TYPE and EXPRESSION be to make this program print 84?

a. TYPE should be replaced with i32, EXPRESSION should be replaced with a.

b. TYPE should be replaced with &mut i32, EXPRESSION should be replaced with a.

c. TYPE should be replaced with i32, EXPRESSION should be replaced with &mut a.

**d. TYPE should be replaced with &mut i32, EXPRESSION should be replaced with &mut a.**

### 4. How many immutable references to a single value can exist at once?

a. None.

b. One.

c. Zero or more.

**d. It depends.**

### 5. Why does the following code fail to compile?

```
let mut a = String::from("");
let r1 = &mut a;
let r2 = &mut a;
r1.push_str("Hello, ");
r2.push_str("World!");
```

a. The code fails to compile because we can not call String::push_str on r1 and r2, it needs te be called on a.

b. The code fails to compile because we are not allowed to take multiple references to a.

c. The code fails to compile because we are not allowed to take multiple mutable references to a.

**d. The code fails to compile because we are creating two mutable references to a that need to be live at the same time.**

### 6. Consider the following code snippet:

```
let mut items = vec![String::from("first")];
for item in items {
    items.
    print!("{item}");
    if item != "c" {
        items.push(String::from("c"));
    }
}
```

### What can you say about this code snippet?

a. It will print ab.

b. It will print abc.

c. It will print abcc.

**d. It will not compile.**
