# Functions and Closures

## Quiz

### 1. Why does the following code fail to compile?

```
fn sub(a, b) {
    return a - b
}
```

### This code fails to compile because:

**a. the arguments and return types are missing.**

b. the return statement is not needed.

c. the semicolon ; is missing after the return a - b statement.

d. sub is a reserved keyword.

### 2. Which of the following statements is false?

**a. Every associated function is a method.**

b. The main function is not an associated function.

c. Every method is an associated function.

d. A method takes some form of a self parameter.

### 3. A closure is different from a function in that it can:

a. omit the return statement

b. not have its arguments declared with a type

c. not have an explicit return type

**d. capture variables declared outside of the closure body**

### 4. Please have a good look at the following code:

```
fn perform_operation(should_add: bool, amount_to_add: i32, value: i32) -> i32 {
    let operation = if should_add {
        // A closure that adds `amount_to_add` to `value`.
        |value: i32| value + amount_to_add
    } else {
        // A closure that returns `value` without modification.
        |value: i32| value
    };

operation(value)
}
```

### This code fails to compile, but can you determine why?

a. Compilation fails because the code does not make sense.

b. Compilation fails because |value: i32| value + amount_to_add uses an argument from the perform_operation function.

**c. Compilation fails because the two branchs of the if statements return different types.**

d. Compilation fails because you can not store a closure in a variable.

### 5. Take a look at the following program.

```
fn prefix_print(prefix: String) -> impl Fn(&str) {
    move |suffix| println!("{prefix} {suffix}")
}

fn main() {
    let pp = prefix_print("Hello,".to_string());

    pp("World!");
}
```

### The impl Bounds syntax in the return type means that this function should return a type that implements Bounds. In this case the returned type has to implement Fn(&str) which means some type that can be called as a function with a single parameter of type &str and returns nothing.

### What can you say about this program?

a. This program does not compile because pp needs to be declared mutably as let mut pp.

b. This program does not compile because prefix_print does not return a function.

c. This program does not compile because the move is unnecessary.

**d. This program prints Hello, World!.**
