# Smart Pointers

## Quiz

### 1. How would you describe a smart pointer?

**a. A type that encapsulates some data and provides some functionality on top of a regular reference.**

b. A type that wraps a pointer.

c. A type that implements a reference counted pointer.

d. A type that behaves like a pointer but automatically deallocates its memory.

### 2. What traits are essential for smart pointer types?

a. Drop

**b. Deref and DerefMut**

c. Display and Debug

d. AsRef and AsMut 

### 3. What is the purpose of Box?

a. The Box type allows memory allocations.

b. The Box type must be used to create indirection.

c. The Box type can be used to create arrays of dynamic size.

**d. The Box type allows moving values onto the heap, adding a layer of indirection.**

### 4. Why does the standard library provide two reference counted pointer types, Rc and Arc?

a. Because Arc can be used in multi-threaded programs because it whereas Rc can not.

b. Because Arc allows sharing ownership of a value whereas Rc is only useful when there is a single owner.

c. Because Rc allocates memory on the heap where Arc allocates memory on the stack.

**d. Because Arc is less performant because it uses atomics whereas Rc does not.**

### 5. What is the point of Cell and RefCell?

a. these types allow evaluating the borrowing rules at compile-time.

b. these types allow evaluating the borrowing rules at run-time.

c. these types are only theoretically useful.

**d. these types can be used when the compiler is not able to prove that the borrowing rules are upheld but as a programmer you can.**

