# Traits

## Quiz

### 1. Which trait can be implemented for a type A that can be converted without failure into a type B while consuming the value?

a. impl AsRef for A

**b. impl From for B**

c. impl TryFrom for B

d. impl Deref for A

### 2. Which trait can be implemented for a type A that can be converted into a type B while consuming the value, but the conversion may fail with an error?

a. impl AsRef for A

b. impl From for B

**c. impl TryFrom for B**

d. impl Deref for A

### 3. If From is implemented for A, then Into is automatically implemented for B. You can also manually implement Into for B, when is it appropriate to do so?

a. Always, you should implement both From for A and Into for B manually.

b. Only if the conversion can not fail.

**c. If it is impossible to implement From for A because A is a type that is declared outside of the current crate and you're using a Rust compiler older than v1.41.**

d. Never, you should rely on the automatic blanket implementation of Into for B.

### 4. Which trait concerns itself with parsing values from a textual representation?

a. Display

b. Debug

c. ToString

**d. FromStr**

### 5. How is the Display trait different from Debug?

**a. Display should be implemented for types that have a reasonable human-readable representation while Debug should be implemented for all types and serves to provide information about the value meant for software developers debugging.**

b. Debug should be implemented for types that have a reasonable human-readable representation while Display should be implemented for all types and serves to provide information about the value meant for software developers debugging.

c. Display should be implemented for types that can be converted to a string while Debug is automatically implemented for all types.

d. Debug should be implemented for types that can be converted to a string while Display is automatically implemented for all types.

### 6. What traits can be implemented if it is possible to view a type A as another type B temporarily?

**a. AsRef and AsMut**

b. Borrow and BorrowMut

c. Deref and DerefMut

d. TryFrom and TryInto

### 7. What traits can be implemented if it is possible to view a type A as another type B temporarily where we can guarantee that the original type A and the view type B represent completely and exactly the same value?

a. AsRef and AsMut

**b. Borrow and BorrowMut**

c. Deref and DerefMut

d. TryFrom and TryInto

### 8. What traits can be implemented for types A and B when A is supposed to act exactly like a B, and provides some functionality on top of B?

a. AsRef and AsMut

b. Borrow and BorrowMut

**c. Deref and DerefMut**

d. TryFrom and TryInto

### 9. Consider the following program:

```
fn twiceF>(f: F) where F : Fn() -> String {
    println!("{} {}", f(), f());
}

fn main() {
    let trouble = String::from("trouble");
    twice(move || trouble);
}
```

### What can you say about this program?

a. This program will print trouble.

b. This program will print trouble trouble.

c. This program will panic at run time.

**d. This program will not compile.**

### 10. What is the purpose of the Read and Write traits from the std::io module?

a. These traits provide an interface for reading from, and writing to files.

b. These traits provide an interface for reading from, and writing to network sockets.

c. These traits provide an interface for serialization to, and deserialization from text.

**d. These traits provide an interface for reading from, and writing to anything that supports reading or writing bytes.**
