# A Description of Rust

## Lesson Introduction

In this lesson, you'll discover what Rust program language is and what makes it a unique language. Get a first look at the tools and find out more about Rust' Zero-Cost Abstractions.

## What is Rust

Rust is a programming language. Most programming languages, in the end, are meant to be used to build software.

This software can serve a purpose in any industrial domain: health care, agriculture, finance, and so on. Software built with Rust might run in a web browser, on a desktop PC, in the cloud, or on an embedded device. ☝️ In short, Rust is a general-purpose programming language.

`Question`: If I already know a general-purpose programming language, why would I be interested in learning Rust?

`Answer`: Rust has some refreshing ideas that help you write memory-safe and performant applications. These ideas are data ownership and the method of error handling. Besides these ideas, Rust allows you to write abstractions that help developers without trading away run-time performance and Rust has great standardized development tooling.

## Data Ownership

The one thing that made Rust unique among programming languages when it was created was that it had a concept of data ownership built into the language.

👉 If you have programmed in a language that does not have garbage collection, let's say C, then you may have struggled with determining whether you have the responsibility of cleaning something up or not.

`Developers`:Bound to have run into a software project that has been around for a while where a huge and deep collection of various objects referencing each other is created at run-time. All of these links between objects have to be maintained when adding or removing objects from the graph. Often information is duplicated as well, so now that has to be done in multiple places. Working with such a tangled ball of pain is not very pleasant, especially if there is no time or team willing to improve the situation.

`Rust developers`: Fortunately, if you enjoy writing such software or need job security (this is not advice), Rust still allows you to create programs with such a structure. All jokes aside, there is an opinion that because Rust developers must keep ownership in mind when writing software, chances are that software written in Rust has a better structure on average than software written in other languages.

## Error Handling

Every useful program needs to deal with errors. Some languages promote the use of "throwing and catching exceptions". ☝️ Rust instead draws inspiration from functional programming languages, where errors are returned by value.

You will dive deeper into error handling in the remaining chapters, but for now, know that all errors that are meant to be handled by the caller are visible in the return type of function. This is true not only for the standard library, but for all decent Rust code written by others.

## Zero-Cost Abstractions

In programming, abstractions help you to write better code more efficiently by reducing the complexity of a problem.

To use the abstraction, programmers need to learn to use the abstraction. Also, because the complexity is reduced, there is often times a run-time performance penalty associated with using the abstraction. The "cost" in zero-cost abstractions refers to the run-time penalty, not to the learning cost.

Rust provides iterators and iterator adapters in the standard library and allows you to write your own. For Rust programs, the iterator and handwritten implementations have roughly the same performance. Knowing this allows Rust developers to write much more maintainable code with fewer mistakes without sacrificing run-time performance.

These "zero-cost abstractions" do not come entirely for free, though. Because each iterator and iterator adapter is its own type, there is a cost for library authors to implement these and make design decisions about how to expose them in their public interface. Additionally, because there are more types, the compile-time is increased.

The point of all this is that Rust provides the tools necessary to implement abstractions that have little or no run-time overhead.

To make full use of this, you may need to learn about generics, zero sized types, compiler optimizations, unsafe and other topics. Not all of these topics will be addressed fully in this basic course, but it is good to know that they exist and allow for very powerful abstractions.

## Tooling

Another major advantage of Rust is the development tooling and ecosystem surrounding it.

### Cargo

Rust has a great dependency managers called Cargo which has taken inspiration from modern dependency managers such as NodeJS's npm and Ruby's bundler. If you've ever tried to integrate multiple libraries from different authors into a C++ project then you know the pain of combining the make, CMake and handwritten build scripts of your dependencies. Cargo makes depending on other people's easy.

### Rustfmt

Besides the standardized build tool, there is also a standardized code formatting tool called rustfmt. Because Rustfmt by default does a pretty darn good job formatting code automatically, formatting by hand is not necessary. Thanks to the quality of rustfmt, all Rust developers are used to the same formatting and reading other people's code is easy.

### Clippy

When learning a new language it is nice to have an experienced look over your shoulder to advise you on how to implement things more concisely and spot common mistakes. The Rust community has built a tool to do this called clippy. Clippy is a so-called linter and has helped many programmers improve their code and spot bugs.

Having Cargo, Rustfmt and Clippy available and used throughout the ecosystem has resulted in unparalleled consistency and quality in Rust codebases. In this course, you will be getting first-hand experience with these tools, and I can guarantee that you will not be disappointed.

## Lesson Summary

In this lesson, you've understood why learning Rust is useful, even if you already know some general-purpose language. You looked at a concept of data ownership built into the language. Got familiar with Rust's standardized development tooling.
