# Rust Applications and Tooling

## Lesson Introduction

In this lesson, you'll dive deeper into Rust Applications and Tooling and understand why Rust is about empowerment. You'll look at Rust as a multifunctional language and will discover its development history. Via examples, you'll meet some real projects that are using Rust.

## Rust as an Empowerment Tool

Rust used to be advertised as a low-level system programming language. While low-level programming for specific machines is an excellent application of the language, it is no longer accurate to state that as the primary target for Rust. It wasn’t always so clear, but the Rust programming language is fundamentally about empowerment:

☝️ For example, “systems-level” work deals with low-level details of memory management, data representation, and concurrency. Traditionally, this realm of programming is seen as arcane, accessible only to a select few who have devoted the necessary years to learning to avoid its infamous pitfalls. And even those who practice it do so with caution, lest their code is open to exploits, crashes, or corruption.

## Rust in Low-Level Systems Programming

Rust breaks down these barriers by eliminating the old pitfalls and providing a friendly, polished set of tools to help you along the way.

👉 Rust isn’t limited to low-level systems programming. It’s expressive and ergonomic enough to make CLI apps, web servers, and many other kinds of code quite pleasant to write. Working with Rust allows you to build skills that transfer from one domain to another; you can learn Rust by writing a web app, then apply those same skills to target your Raspberry Pi.

## Development of Rust

Rust is a relatively young language, and since its inception, it has only become more popular. Let's briefly review the path of development of this programming language.

📌 When the Servo team at Mozilla was disbanded in 2020, many people feared for the future of Rust, since the Servo team was a significant contributor to the Rust language. Fortunately, a few months later, in 2021, the formation of the Rust Foundation was officially announced by its five founding companies: AWS, Huawei, Google, Microsoft, and Mozilla.

Real-World Applications of Rust
📌 Let’s look at some of the growing number of Rust projects, so you can understand how widespread its use is.

## Rust Applications

There are 5 applications that you should know about when starting with Rust.
😀 Let's review all of them in more details.

### The Compiler `rustc`

📌 rustc is a standard compiler for the Rust programming language. There are alternative implementations in progress with goals different from the standard library.

- mrustc aims to bootstrap the rustccompiler
- gccrs is a gcc front-end

According to the FAQ, compiling programs where both gcc and LLVM are involved does not allow for some optimizations, which can cause security problems. The alternative compilers are not as mature at the time of writing, and you will most likely just be using rustc.

The rustc compiler is a very active open-source project. It gets improved very frequently, and it can be nice to be able to use those improvements quickly. However, at other times one may value stability more. To satisfy both scenarios, rustc has two important release channels: stable and nightly. You can have different versions of the Rust tool chain installed side-by-side using rustup.

☝️ As to stability, many programming languages suffer from the inability to make backward-incompatible changes. As a result:

1. Languages are often unable to make specific improvements.
2. They need to use a more cumbersome implementation than it would've been if it did not need to be backward incompatible.
3. They try to think ahead by doing things such as reserving keywords for use in the future
4. They create a second language, like what happened with Python, which split the ecosystem.

Rust has a single compiler that supports multiple Editions, which can be considered different versions of the Rust language. Packages written in one edition can depend on packages written in another, preventing the split in the ecosystem. This allows software maintainers to independently update the source code to a modern edition, using language improvements.

### The Build Tool `cargo`

📌 cargo is both a build tool and package manager. You can read the details on why cargo exists, but basically, it makes it easier to build and test your projects while working with external dependencies.

The most important commands are: `cargo init`, `cargo run`, `cargo test`.

The Tool chain Version Manager rustup

You could install the `rustc`, `cargo`, and other tools from the Rust toolchain.

More often than not, you will be working on old and newer projects at the same time. Those projects may require a stable or nightly version of the compiler. Rustup can manage your toolchain installations for you. The officially recommended way to install Rust is, therefore, through rustup.

For your initial installation, choose the latest stable version of rust. Other versions can be added later with rustup. Visit rustup.rs and follow the instructions.

### The Formatter `rustfmt`

`rustfmt` is an excellent automatic source code formatting tool for Rust. Most open-source Rust projects use rustfmt to guarantee consistent code formatting without needing to modify the formatting configuration.

This is a huge advantage of developing in Rust, possibly contributing significantly to Rust being the "most loved programming language". When writing, `rustfmt` is installed by rustup as a part of the stable toolchain. Formatting can be performed with `cargo fmt`.

### The Linter `clippy`

📌 clippy is a remarkable tool that helps you write better Rust by checking code style and providing suggestions on how to improve it. It even can help you to catch bugs. When writing, `clippy` is installed by rustup as a part of the `stable` toolchain. Linting can be performed with cargo clippy. A collection of lints to catch common mistakes and improve your Rust code. There are over 550 lints included in this crate.

Lints are divided into categories, each with a default lint level. You can choose how much Clippy is supposed to help you by changing the lint level by category.

### Third-Party tools

The growing Rust community can write applications that pretend to be cargo subcommands. 👉 Examples of useful tools are:

`cargo-edit` provides commands that allow you to add, remove and upgrade dependencies from the command line rather than modifying Cargo.toml by hand.

`cargo-udeps` tries to determine which dependencies specified in Cargo.toml are not used by any of your code.

High performance while processing large amounts of data, support for concurrent programming, and an effective compiler are other reasons why well-known software heavyweights now use this programming language. Firefox, Dropbox, Cloudflare, and many other companies, from startups to large corporations, use Rust in production.

## Lesson Summary

In this lesson, you've learned more about Rust's development history and looked through some real-world projects. Considered in detail some of the Rust tools and understood why Rust is such a unique program language.
